Add What We Learned at OSS Europe: A Plan for Measurable DevRel Blog … (#85)
DevRel-Foundation/site: src/blog/2025-09-19-oss-summit-europe-2025.md

---
title: "What We Learned at OSS Europe: A Plan for Measurable DevRel"
excerpt: "How the DevRel Foundation drives measurable outcomes, standard metrics, and practical frameworks for Developer Relations teams and leaders."
author: "@mplacona"
date: "2025-09-19"
category: "community"
tags: ["foundation", "events"]
---

> At Open-Source Summit Europe 2025 in Amsterdam, we hosted an Ask Me Anything with leaders from our community and the Linux Foundation. The goal was simple. Surface your biggest questions about DevRel and show practical ways the Foundation can help. 

Reviewer: Most of my feedback was addressed so I think this comes across better now, thanks!

### How do we tie DevRel to revenue?

Revenue is an outcome of successful journeys. DevRel can shorten and strengthen those journeys. The work is to trace developer progress across the community and the product.

* **Connect the dots.** Use community intelligence and product analytics to see who is evaluating, who is unblocked, and who is converting. You do not need perfect attribution. You need a consistent way to see movement across key stages.  
* **Instrument the handoffs.** Track how DevRel content and support reduce common blockers in proofs of concept. Track time from the first question to unblock. Track how often a successful proof of concept moves to a trial or purchase.  
* **Capture stories and systematize them.** When you help a team move from evaluation to purchase faster, write the play. Which persona? Which blockers? Which content or support solved it? Turn that into a repeatable motion that anyone in your company can use.

> The Metrics working group is rebooting to publish examples you can adapt. Expect templates for funnel definitions, example dashboards, and sample reports that map DevRel outcomes to pipeline stages and customer health.

Reviewer: not the working group

The [Metrics Index](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/wg-resource-aggregation?tab=readme-ov-file#working-group-projects) project aggregates metrics you can adopt.

### What are the most common challenges?

We heard three over and over again.

* **Perception problem.** DevRel is considered a cost center without clear value. The remedy is consistent language, transparent goals, and outcome reports that map to company OKRs.  
* **Silos and access.** Teams do not have access to product analytics or cannot connect community signals to product data. The remedy is cross-functional alignment and a minimum shared instrumentation plan. Start small. Agree on the few events and labels everyone will use.  
* **Unsustainable motions.** Travel-heavy schedules burn people out and waste money. Replace a portion of travel with scalable digital programs, local community partners, and content that compounds over time. When you do travel, tie every trip to a measurable goal.

> The Foundation will publish playbooks to facilitate cross-functional collaboration and promote sustainable operating models. These will include checklists, templates for shared dashboards, and example rhythms for data reviews involving product, marketing, and sales teams.

Reviewer: The foundation is working on a [DevRel Maturity Model](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/wg-resource-aggregation?tab=readme-ov-file#working-group-projects) to publish playbooks for facilitating cross-function collaboration and promote...

### Which skills matter most now?

This is where the craft of DevRel meets the discipline of product.

* **Authentic, developer-first communication.** Speak to the problems developers actually have. Show how to solve them with real code, real examples, and real constraints.  
* **Empathy and persona awareness.** Know who you are helping. A senior platform engineer has different constraints than a startup founder. Route your work accordingly.  
* **Technical advocacy or strong routing to technical owners.** You do not need to be the deepest expert in every stack. You do need to get developers unblocked quickly. Either do it yourself or build the internal routing that makes it happen.  
* **Data literacy.** You do not need to be a data scientist. You do need to choose the right metrics, interpret what they mean, and tell a clear business story. Learn enough SQL or analytics tooling to answer basic questions yourself. Pair with data partners for the rest.

> These skills are learnable. The Foundation will gather examples and training paths you can use to level up your team.

Reviewer: These skills are learnable. The [Resources Working Group](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/wg-resource-aggregation) will gather examples and training paths into a [Career Manual](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/wg-resource-aggregation) you can use to level up your team.

1. [**Join our Discord community**](https://discord.gg/G7CSTKZcuT) **and introduce yourself.** Share what you work on, your product context, and what you want from the Foundation.  
2. [**Explore working groups**](https://dev-rel.org/about/working-groups)**.** Pick one that fits your skills and goals. Personas, metrics, community operations, or another area you care about.  
3. **Contribute to the [Persona Library](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/persona-library) and [Metrics efforts](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/metrics-index).** Bring your real-world examples. If your team already uses a persona or a metric definition that works, contribute it so others can adapt it.  
4. **Share challenges and wins from your org.** We will not publish anything without your consent, but your experience can become a pattern others can use.  
5. **Pilot a playbook.** Take one of the early frameworks, put it to work for a quarter, and share what you learned. We will iterate together.

You do not need permission to start. If you see a gap, propose a contribution. If you have a question, ask it in public. If you can help another team avoid a month of trial and error, share your approach.

> 

Reviewer: I'd suggest either not including this section since it duplicates what is listed elsewhere and/or is incomplete and has a chance to drift (the discord invite link is biting us for example). This is a partial list of projects so also sets wrong expectations.

Perhaps just link or reference https://dev-rel.org/join to stay on message. If there is something here that is missing from that page, let's update that page.

---
title: "What We Learned at OSS Europe: A Plan for Measurable DevRel"
excerpt: "How the DevRel Foundation drives measurable outcomes, standard metrics, and practical frameworks for Developer Relations teams and leaders."
author: "@mplacona, @Cruzn65"
date: "2025-09-19"
category: "announce"
tags: ["community", "events"]
---

> At Open-Source Summit Europe 2025 in Amsterdam, we hosted an Ask Me Anything with leaders from our community and the Linux Foundation. The goal was simple. Surface your biggest questions about DevRel and show practical ways the Foundation can help. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Open-Source Summit Europe 2025 in Amsterdam, DRF hosted an [Ask Me Anything](https://youtu.be/Ovqs4Zy2-go?si=eCd4UWmN0sfFZ4Hg&t=612) with leaders from our community:

- Ana, project manager at the Linux Foundation. Former researcher in DevRel metrics 
- Stacey, DevRel Leader, Community and developer marketing leader
- Marcos, long-time DevRel builder and consultant
- Divya, developer advocate focused on metrics and community

The goal was simple. Surface your biggest questions about DevRel and show practical ways the Foundation can help. 
```
